In this video we'll learn about VSD fair a high availability and how it can be used to protect our virtual
machines from any ESX host failure.
So the purpose of high availability is to protect our virtual machines from failures.
But it does not provide 100 percent uptime ha is going to involve virtual machines rebooting.
It's going to involve virtual machines potentially being down for a little while.
If something like an ESX host failure occurs that there is going to be an outage associated with that
what Ha does is essentially if an ESX host fails all of the virtual machines are running on that host
will fail.
But after the fact after that failure occurs high availability will start rebooting those virtual machines
on different hosts within that cluster.
You can protect your virtual machine from failures at the host level or you can even protect your virtual
machines from virtual machine level failures with high availability.
So you can actually monitor the status of VM or tools in your virtual machines.
And if VM or tool stops responding that virtual machine can be rebooted right on the same host it's
so H.A. can protect you from failures at either the host or virtual machine level.
And we can use things like mission control to ensure that we have enough spare capacity right.
So for example if you have a cluster of four hosts in one of those hosts fails we need to make sure
that the surviving hosts have enough spare memory and CPQ capacity to acceptably run all of the virtual
machines that used to be running on that host that has now failed.
That's what we use at mission control for is to guarantee that we have spare available capacity.
And one final point about H.A. it does not utilize Wii motion.
Don't confuse H.A. with DRM or with the motion.
High Availability does not utilize Wii motion in any way because Wii motion is used for running virtual
machines and virtual machines that are up with high availability if a host fails.
My virtual machines are down.
So let's take a look at how high availability works.
Here you can see I have a VM called V.M. 1 and my VM is running on host ESX size 0 1.
And so we've got this VM running and right now everything is fine.
My VM is working it's running on a host 1 and my VM also has access to all of its files that are down
here on shared storage.
Right.
And by the way shared storage is required for H.A..
So I have to have some sort of shared storage system that all of my hosts in the cluster have access
to.
So I've got shared storage I've got VM one running on ESX has ever one.
And then something happens something goes wrong and ESX zero one fails right.
So now my host that the VM one was running on is down and my VM can't run if the host is down.
So VM one fails right along with that host
so there's going to be some down time for this virtual machine and every other VM that was running on
that host.
And what's going to happen now is the virtual machines files are still intact.
Right.
The vim's running state or live state may have been affected but there's still a a set of files for
this virtual machine that are intact that exist on shared storage and those files can be used to now
boot up another instance of that virtual machine on some other ESX I host.
And that's how high availability works.
And when the host one fails hosts two or three or four one of them is going to be a master host that
host is going to recognize that hey host one is down.
Let's take all the victims that were running on that host will leverage their files which are still
intact and will start booting up all those victims on the surviving hosts within that cluster.
So now we're just going to take a very brief look at the architecture of high availability at a pretty
high level here.
And here we see V.M. kernel ports running on every host in my cluster and those VM kernel ports are
marked for management traffic.
And so what high availability is going to do is once we go hadn't we create our cluster right in the
center.
We go ahead and enable high availability on this cluster.
Then at that point what will happen is once high availability is enabled an election will take place.
And one of these hosts in the cluster will take on the role of master every other host in that cluster
will take on the role of Slave
The other thing that will happen when we enable high availability is the fault domain manager or FDM
will start running on each of these hosts.
And the Default Domain manager is basically responsible for these hosts communicating with each other.
So the master hosts will be constantly sending heartbeats to all the slaves all of the slaves will constantly
be sending heartbeats to the Master.
Right.
And and so basically this allows the master to know hey if any of the slaves are down the master will
know or if the master itself goes down all of the slaves on that master sends heartbeats to the slaves
slaves send heart beats to the master.
And this allows our closter to detect failures.
Right.
So if we have a slave host that all of a sudden you know goes down it's going to stop sending heartbeats
to the master.
The master can determine that and it will do a couple of tricks to verify that that's actually the case
that the host is truly down.
At which point those victims that are affected can start booting up on other hosts
OK.
So from the perspective of the VM We're certified associate exam what you need to know is that high
availability provides a reliability mechanism right.
If a host fails those VMs are going to restart on other ESX hosts.
But there's going to be some downtime associated with that.
And really the ideal way to configure this is to enable both high availability and DNS on your cluster.
H.A. does not use the motion though.
And we took a little brief look at the architecture how the master sends heartbeats to the slaves.
The slaves send heartbeats to the master and that's how we determine if a host has failed and the component
that actually runs in the host handles all of this heart beating and the communication between hosts.
It's called the fault domain manager.